I am Alexander III of Macedon, better known as
Alexander the Great. Single-handedly changed
the nature of the ancient world in little
more than a decade. I was born in Pella,
the ancient capital of Macedonia in July 356 BC.
My parents were Philip II of Macedon and Olympias.
I was educated by the philosopher Aristotle.
My father was assassinated in 336 BC,
and I inherited a powerful yet volatile kingdom.
I quickly dealt with my enemies at home and
reasserted Macedonian power within Greece. I then
set out to conquer the massive Persian Empire.
Against overwhelming odds, I led my
army to victories across the Persian
territories of Asia Minor, Syria, and
Egypt without suffering a single defeat.
My greatest victory was at the Battle of
Gaugamela, in what is now northern Iraq,
in 331 BC. Beside being the young king
of Macedonia, leader of the Greeks,
overlord of Asia Minor and pharaoh of Egypt, I
became 'great king' of Persia at the age of 25.
Over the next eight years, in my capacity as
king, commander, politician, scholar and explorer,
I led my army a further 11,000 miles,
founding over 70 cities and creating an
empire that stretched across three continents
and covered around two million square miles.
The entire area from Greece in
the west, north to the Danube,
south into Egypt and as far to the east as the
Indian Punjab, was linked together in a vast
international network of trade and commerce. This
was united by a common Greek language and culture,
while I adopted foreign customs to rule the
millions of ethnically diverse subjects.
My army only refused to follow me once in
13 years of a reign during which there was
constant fighting. This indicates the loyalty I
inspired. I died of fever in Babylon in 323 BC.
I am indebted to my father for living,
but to my teacher for living well.
They taught me everything I needed to
unite the old world and I hope the new
world is flourishing with those who teach
inspiration to humans across the world.